<LISP>UPDATE-POLICY.INFO
May 7, 1975

This message describes the method in which LISP will be maintained at
SUMEX.
------------------------------------------------------------------

Now that SUMEX is (finally) operational on the ARPANET it is now
possible to maintain INTERLISP at the same level as at other TENEX
sites.

Current versions of INTERLISP at SUMEX will remain on the system (but
renamed), until it becomes apparent that they are not being used. This
includes <LISP>SMALL.SAV;4, <SUBSYS>LISP.SAV;4 and <SUBSYS>NLISP.SAV;1.
Therefore, users running production programs in one of the current
systems do not need to worry about converting over to new systems,
although the maintainers of such programs are strongly encouraged to do
so.

As new versions are released from BBN and Xerox for general consumption
(generally after running at PARC and BBN for several weeks), they will
be brought up here at SUMEX. These new versions will be superceded by
even newer versions and will then be archived after a reasonable amount
of time (if no one is still using them; see below). Note that ALL
versions will be archived so that any sysout which is archived will not
become useless.

ALL versions will actually reside on the <LISP> directory; on <SUBSYS>
will be "indirect" files OLISP, LISP, NLISP (and possibly NNLISP). An
"indirect" file is a little program which, when you run it, immediately
invokes another program. The reason the files will be put on <LISP> is
that sysout files contain within them the name of their parent and would
become confused if the actual LISP.SAV files were themselves moved
around. When a new version of INTERLISP is released it will become a new
version of <LISP>LISP.SAV, and a new <SUBSYS>NLISP, pointing to the new
release, will be put on <SUBSYS>. After one month, the "indirect"s will
be shifted (<SUBSYS>LISP becomes <SUBSYS>OLISP, <SUBSYS>NLISP becomes
<SUBSYS>LISP). After an additional month, <SUBSYS>OLISP will go away,
(though the version of <LISP>LISP.SAV to which it points may remain
longer).

Before ANY version is archived, a program will be run which searches the
entire system for sysouts on that version. NO version will be archived
if ANY sysouts to it exist. For a complete description of the timetable
for update of LISP, see the file <LISP>UPDATE-TIMETABLE.INFO. In
summary, after a new release an older version will remain for at least
two months or for longer, if any user requests that it remain.

Unfortunately it has not been possible before now to bring over each new
release. Thus there has been an accumulation of small changes, a small
number of which may require minor edits to some programs. All such
changes will be >>>clearly marked<<< in the documentation accompanying a
release.

Many new features have been introduced at the request of users
throughout the INTERLISP community; but the primary development effort
currently is directed toward improving efficiency and making TENEX
INTERLISP compatible (or potentially so) with other implementations.

When a new version is released, all changes or new features will be
announced by sending a message to everyone listed in <LISP>USERS. A
brief announcement of the release will also appear in the system login
message. If your name is not in <LISP>USERS and you wish to receive such
messages, please SNDMSG to MASINTER or JACKSON.

CAVEAT: Older versions of INTERLISP are NOT (and cannot be) maintained.
It is NOT possible to obtain a version that is identical to an older
system except for a fix to a bug.  If you have a problem using an older
version and the problem has been remedied in the newer version, my only
advice is to switch over or to program around it.

Comments, requests, or reports of problems with the LATEST systems  are
actively solicited. If you have a problem, please SNDMSG to  JACKSON
and/or MASINTER with an accurate description. It is most helpful if you
first check to see if your problem can be reproduced; avoid messages
saying only something like "mumble DOESN'T WORK".

Now that SUMEX is on the ARPANET, much faster response to bug reports
can be expected than was previously possible.
